Henry Lin
Research in Disciplines: Science and Uncertainty
Research Paper
Professor Kelly
9 December 2020
Human-Robot Coexistence
Introduction
	Artificial intelligence (AI), the simulation of human intelligence in machines that are programmed to mimic humans, is a rapidly developing field in the contemporary world. The slow replacement of labor by automated machinery began with the first industrial revolution in the late 18th century, and has since gained much more traction. The dawn of a fourth industrial revolution is on the horizon, as the development of AI has made it viable for robots to begin being incorporated into the workplace to increase both efficiency and productivity. As AI begins to take over our lives, the unpredictability of the future will continuously increase. While society transforms into a culture where humans and robots interact daily and live under the same conditions, ethical issues regarding the treatment of robots will inevitably surface. On one hand, if treated as equals, AI may threaten to eliminate the need for humans in any job due to their objective superiority in handling tasks with higher efficiency while carrying the same intelligence as any human. On the other hand, it is due to this equal intelligence that maybe they should be considered as equals despite this potential outcome, as they are simply humans in a mechanical body. This leads to the question I will be focusing on: what is the most ethical and practical way to integrate robots into society as they begin to monopolize the economy?
	When exploring the future, the best way to make predictions as accurate as possible is to look at similar situations in the past and examine the results. I plan to focus mainly on our attitudes as a population when examining previous scenarios, since “general attitudes [...] have been found to be predictive of general behavior patterns” (Fazio and Zanna, 196-197). Thus, understanding how employee attitudes have affected behavior in the workplace during previous cases where technology grew at a rapid pace may lead to a fairly accurate prediction of what the future holds by comparing them to the public attitude in the present. However, when turning toward the more ethical questions regarding life in conjunction with robots, the concept is brand new and requires another lens to examine. Thus, after analyzing attitudes, I will explore the ideas of posthumanism and roboethics when discussing the integration of robots into our everyday lives. These two topics applied to the findings from the analysis on attitudes will provide a thorough understanding of the problem at hand and a path to the solution. They bring new topics to the table such as the difference between humans, cyborgs, and robots and whether or not they are really inherently different. I will be exploring these concepts and putting them under a utilitarian lens when looking for the optimal solution for a utopian future. With these ideas in mind, it is imperative to recognize that when following the past trends, we are on track for a world where humans and machines will live together. Furthermore, the equal treatment of conscious AI is a necessity for a harmonious society, as segregating will create a divide that is too large for any cooperation to exist.

Past, Present, or Future?
	With a massive technological shift in the job market on the horizon, looking at some similar changes in the past is vital in being able to produce a reasonable prediction of the future. The past three industrial revolutions all have had a significant shift in how the economy functioned; and with the third industrial revolution being only a couple decades in the past, it will have the highest amount of similarities to the impending changes. The third industrial revolution being referenced here is the ‘digital revolution’ that started in the 1950s where things like modern computers and the internet began to emerge. The transition during the third industrial revolution was fairly controlled and did not offer too many challenges “because of the time required to plan and organize a computing installation, [so] there would be adequate opportunities to redeploy staff” (Borodin and Gottlieb, 697). The theme around change tends to fall along the same pattern of taking a long time to implement and transition, and could be what we should expect in the next couple years. Furthermore, during the third industrial revolution, employees around the world tended to be more satisfied with their work after having computers introduced as they “felt that their work demanded more knowledge, accuracy, regulations, and an increased workload” (700). This general sense of contentment makes a lot of sense considering the circumstances at the time since it helped employees have an easier time with their work, and again could happen in the future. However, although we can apply these ideas directly to the current day, there are new factors that need to be taken into consideration as they can and will likely make the upcoming market shift significantly different from any previous ones.
	When comparing between the third industrial revolution and the upcoming fourth industrial revolution, the differences in how the economy functions, type of technology introduced, and the state of the society need to be taken into consideration. The foundation of the massive changes in productivity during the previous industrial revolution was due to the idea that the new technology being introduced improved the efficiency of laborers by multiple times of what they were previously at. Furthermore, during this time period, not only did the productivity increase, but “the demand for products and services has increased even more rapidly,” (696) creating a need for more workers in order to keep up. The increased productivity and demand then fed off each other as the increase in the workforce led to a higher amount of people with a constant income, leading to even higher demand and in turn further increased productivity. Finally, technology during this time was used to complement and improve the efficiency of human labor, shown by job titles such as “computer operators” and “programmers” (699). The combination of man and machine along with the increase in demand were instrumental in the tremendous economic growth during the third industrial revolution.
 	Looking at the upcoming industrial revolution however, many of these factors either no longer exist or have a widely different impact than previously. The fourth industrial revolution is one of a kind as it is the first where machines are able to be fully autonomous. Additionally, just as we started to make the transition to a new and altered job market, the world was struck by a pandemic. This pandemic has caused one of the largest economic recessions in history; with the US unemployment rate in April 2020 reaching 14.7 percent (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics), a number that hasn’t been reached since the Great Depression in the 1930s. With all the restrictions put on day to day life to prevent the spread of the virus, “COVID-19 may start to change consumer preferences, as human contact has become a risky activity that may be harmful to people’s health” (Coombs, 2). The need to put the minimization of human to human contact as a priority has actually led to the same results as the last industrial revolution as it has boosted the need for technology and allowed for the economy to stay afloat. With so much new technology being incorporated into the economy in areas such as increased use of self checkout and contactless payment, it is highly unlikely any of it will be taken out in favor of human labor considering that it is preferable to minimize human contact in the current day and technology will provide greater efficiency. The increased reliance on technology “may result in a shift in individuals’ IT culture orientations from a cautious or reluctant IT culture group to an embracing IT culture group,” (2) as it has become an essential part for the economy and everyday life. Furthermore, the change to a technology embracing culture and the shift in employee mindset during the third industrial revolution that Borodin and Gottlieb described work together to show that our preferences are not stable and we will simply change our views as a population based on what is important in the global discussion at that moment. Our lack of decisiveness suggests that robots will likely not be welcomed initially as they will be a large shift that may disturb the existing way of life and uproot the habits and expectations that have existed for decades. However, once the change has occurred, it may be seen as more beneficial since increased exposure will lead to less biased judgement as people are no longer resisting change.
	Analyzing the human machine interactions rather than the overall state of society, it is pretty clear that the role of humans and machines have changed quite significantly over the past couple decades. The growing preference for artificial intelligence over humans during the COVID-19 pandemic will lead to a faster transition toward an economy where jobs are fully automated and done by machines rather than humans. As Borodin and Gottlieb wrote, the manageable pace of job replacement during the third industrial revolution was mainly due to the amount of time required to prepare and set it up for use. On the other hand, it doesn't require much preparation for the technology today to be operational in their roles, as artificial intelligence is fully autonomous, so as soon as they are put into place they can run with little maintenance. Furthermore, the need for technology is in much higher demand in the current day as "businesses exploring the use of IA technologies before COVID-19 are rapidly converting their pilots to full organisational implementations” (Coombs, 2), in order to minimize the amount of necessary human interaction. In addition, it can be extrapolated from this quote that machines no longer need humans to function and completely replaces human labor instead of complementing it as it did in the past. The outcome this creates is very different from that of the third industrial revolution and in recent years, "routine jobs that can easily be automated vanished with the 2008 financial crisis and didn’t come back" (Frey, 1). Something very similar may happen in the current day, so the impending market shift could become a problem. It is not appalling to think that there could be a complete replacement of all human labor by intelligent technology at some point in the future. Especially with the high preference for technology in the current day and the trend suggesting that this preference will only get stronger as time goes on, it almost seems inevitable.
The beliefs of transhumanism and posthumanism discuss the ability for humans to augment themselves through the use of technology in order to keep up with the improved robots. Transhumanism states that we should “overcome our biological limits by means of reason, science and technology’ (Ouroboros), augmenting humans using new technologies” (Rhiannon and Robinson, 4), as this lets humans compete with the high efficiency of robots and maintain their status in society. Adding on to transhumanism beliefs, some posthumanists believe that “human-technological hybridity should not be used instrumentally or feared as threatening,” (Graham) and that technological development is empowering for humans. If given the same tech upgrades as a robot, humans will be able to keep up with their abilities and in turn coexist with robots. While this would provide humans the ability to stay relevant in the job market, it also raises ethical questions. Some people may not agree to being forced into a situation like this, and others may have health issues that prevent them from accepting these technological enhancements. So while the posthumanist future is very likely to happen, it does not cover the entire population.

Universal Benefits
The choice between being human and cyborg brings about the next issue I will be exploring, the idea of human evolution. With the introduction of machines, will humans be pressured into accepting cybernetic enhancements in order to keep up and stay relevant in society or will we simply sit back and let the machines take over the economy. Since it is almost guaranteed that “robots will outperform human beings and could turn around evolutionary pressures towards the eradication of the fallible species of human” (Puaschunder, 12-13), cybernetic enhancements can be a way to turn this pressure around and stabilize it. However, this may cause controversy as many may not agree with this concept due to how much it alters the body. On the other hand, if we sit back and let the robots do all the work, as Puaschunder writes, it turns evolutionary pressures against us, and threatens “the abolition of human nature” (Illich). With neither of these solutions being optimal, the solution to this problem does not seem apparent at the moment; but perhaps further information gained in the future will lead us to the answer. At least for the near future, considering the rights that every person should have, everyone should be able to decide whether or not they want to change their body with technological implants and enhancements, therefore rendering this solution incomplete. While cyborgization would be a great way to keep some humans in the economy, the implementation of an universal basic income (UBI) would solve the encroachment of AI more reliably and on a much larger scale.
	Robots have already begun to take over the market little by little, and will no doubt continue to do so. It seems that they will completely remove the need for humans to participate in the job market, as “the development of complete AI is a ticking time-bomb – practically everything a human can do intellectually, the AI will be able to do too” (Simionescu, 5), and with technology’s ability to complete tasks much more efficiently than humans, where will we be left? There are many ideologies that center around a future of living in harmony with robots, but this would then lead to no work for humans as the more efficient robots completely monopolize the job market. Some believe that “robots are likely to become dependency-forming and substitute for human skills in a wider ‘attack on autonomy’” (Rhiannon and Robinson, 7) and remove the need for humans in the job market. However, a situation with a monopolized job market can be solved by the use of UBI as it will allow for humans to maintain life in a way without participating in the workforce like we do today.
 One solution leads into a conversation of an altered version of unemployment benefits that is more general and also a more controversial topic: the idea of a universal basic income. Instead of only helping those who need it to survive, why not provide a sustainable income to everyone and invalidate the need to pump money into the economy in order to reinstate it to its previous levels. Many people who need the outside support are unable to obtain any due to the higher application requirements, leading “to close to one million recipients being denied benefits altogether” (Reed and Lansley, 10) for a period of time. UBI would completely eliminate this scenario as having the benefits be universal keeps the economy rolling in recessions as people will always have money to spend, as well as keeping the poor and the unemployed afloat even outside of recessions. Furthermore, in the far future, implementation of UBI is essentially a necessity as with no one being able to outcompete robots, UBI will be the only source of income.
Though another problem is presented with the implementation of UBI, the question of whether or not we really should continue developing artificial intelligence. It provides more efficiency to the workplace and improves our overall quality of life, but is a world where humans have no work an ideal we want to work for? This then diverges into two possible solutions, one being a complete halt to all development in order to sustain this lifestyle for as long as possible. As long as we have existed as a species, everything done has been toward the goal of progression and making life more comfortable, and economies function on businesses taking advantage of new innovations and inventions in order to make profits. Simply stopping development may work, but it’ll stall our progress toward better quality of life and better medicine as well as going against the idea of evolution since it would simply stop progression altogether. Additionally, this is ignoring any black market that will continue to develop artificial intelligence behind the backs of regulation, making this path impossible to regulate and impractical.

Robot Rights
In addition to the efficiency that robots will add to our lives, conscious artificial intelligence has the same mental capacity and emotions as humans do, so maybe we should be referring to robots in the same way we do other humans. There have already been instances of robots being present in society, for example, “in Saudi Arabia the first female robot got a citizenship in 2017” (Puaschunder, 7). Being given the same rights as a human in the present day must mean that there are many striking similarities between man and machine. If robots are on the same level as humans intellectually, then they should be presented with the same rights as any other human being. This becomes the clear answer when considering cyborgs in the picture as well; as posthumanists introduce the idea of technology enhancing humans, it is certain that will become more prevalent. Furthermore, because they are simply humans with technological enhancements, they technically already exist today as people with prosthetics would fit this definition. If cyborgs today aren’t even called cyborgs and are treated the same way as any human, a fully technological version of a cyborg should in turn be given the same human rights as well then. Thus, there is no reason robots should ever be shut off at a human’s jurisdiction, since “when considering robots as quasi-human beings, their termination appears legally questionable and ethically challenging,” (9) due to termination essentially being murder. Finally if considering robots as human, shutting down a large mass of robots in order to keep our lives the way we want it to be would directly translate to genocide as it is killing the entirety or the majority of the population of robots or the ‘quasi-humans’.
Some people may argue that because we are the creators of robots, we have the right to shut them down if they begin to endanger us and threaten our well being. This viewpoint states that “if AI life has become a burden that cannot be borne by society, society is justified in taking AI’s life” (Puaschunder, 10-11), which does seem like a reasonable stance to take due to the large amount of detriments robots may bring to society. However, this still seems a bit too extreme as it is essentially cutting off thousands if not millions of conscious minds purely based on our preferences and how we want to live. Perhaps initially as AI is still developing, this may be a preventive measure put in place to handle possible technological malfunctions, but fully functioning human level intelligence should never be killed. Considering that cyborgs, or simply people with prosthetics, have the basic right of being able “to not be unduly discriminated against or subjected to demeaning procedures” (Clarke) is already enough to argue against this claim as cyborgs are the middle ground between robots and humans so anything applying to cyborgs should be applied to all three parties. Humans are becoming increasingly integrated with technology, and although it is only currently used as a way to help those with disabilities, it may become more widespread and become a luxury for anyone who can afford it as time progresses. With such little differences between robots, cyborgs, and humans when looking from a broader perspective, there really is no reason to justify killing robots just because we created them. This can essentially be thought of parents killing off their offspring because they become a burden the parents no longer can endure, which can be agreed to be morally wrong by our societal standards.
There are further issues with the argument of shutting down robots if they become too much of a burden, the key one being the concept that we are attempting to shut down or ‘kill’ fully functional and conscious beings with the same capabilities as we do. Considering the resistance that one would be met with when attempting to do the same to an entire population of humans, it is not unexpected to think that the same reaction will be brought by robots. Taking into account the massive war that would likely ensue, and the superiority robots have over humans due to their ability to work more effectively and efficiently. It is definitively easier to simply leave things be in order to avoid this conflict, and work to create a society where we can live simultaneously and peacefully through both the use of technological enhancements for humans as well as the implementation of a universal basic income.

Conclusion
The future of technology is uncertain, but our path can be directed to produce the most optimal outcome possible for the majority of the population. While it is essentially guaranteed that robots will become a part of our society and live alongside us in the future, it is not known how this society will function. Past and present occurrences lead to the idea that we may initially be skeptical of the integration of robots into our lives, but will become increasingly comfortable with the situation after given more time to adapt. Furthermore, there are many questions regarding the treatment of robots and whether or not they should be treated at the same levels of humans. The key to a harmonious coexistence lies within the equality between robots and humans due to the high level of similarities we have. Considering that robots are essentially just one step away from a cyborg and that cyborgs already exist all around the globe today, it is morally wrong to treat them simply as a creation that we can throw away on a whim. Through this equal treatment and careful integration into the social and economical aspects of society, it is possible to create a thriving society with little conflict between human and machine. It almost feels like this won’t happen for centuries down the line because of how massive of a change it is, but with the speed of technological advancements today, it may very well happen in our lifetimes. And while this paper explores the implications of different actions we can take and what they will likely result in, there is not much information on how to complete this transition into the ideal utopian society I have tried to create. I think the first step is to find the proper solution, but the next step is to find the correct path that leads to this solution. Looking down different directions blindy could create nonoptimal situations we do not want to be stuck in.
Bibliography
Y. Yang, 2020, "Analysis of the Impact of Artificial Intelligence Development on Employment,"
2020 International Conference on Computer Engineering and Application (ICCEA), Guangzhou, China, pp. 324-327, doi: 10.1109/ICCEA50009.2020.00077.
A. Borodin and C. C. Gotlieb. 1972. Computers and employment. Commun. ACM 15, 7
(July 1972), 695–702. DOI:https://doi-org.proxy.libraries.rutgers.edu/10.1145/361454.361530
Coombs, Crispin, 2020, “Will COVID-19 be the tipping point for the Intelligent Automation of
work? A review of the debate and implications for research”, International Journal of Information Management, 102182, ISSN 0268-4012, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102182
Puaschunder, Julia M. “Artificial Intelligence Evolution: On the Virtue of Killing in the Artificial
Age.” SSRN Electronic Journal, 2018, doi:10.2139/ssrn.3247401.
Frey, Carl Benedikt. “Covid-19 Will Only Increase Automation Anxiety” Financial Times,
Financial Times, 21 Apr. 2020, www.ft.com/content/817228a2-82e1-11ea-b6e9-a94cffd1d9bf
Fazio, Russell H., and Mark P. Zanna. “Direct Experience And Attitude-Behavior Consistency.”
Advances in Experimental Social Psychology Advances in Experimental Social Psychology Volume 14, 1981, pp. 161–202., doi:10.1016/s0065-2601(08)60372-x.
Sabin Simionescu. 2017. Reasons for and benefits of teaching Internet of Things basics in the
eve of the 4th industrial revolution. In Proceedings of the 8th Balkan Conference in Informatics (BCI '17). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 15, 1–7. DOI:https://doi-org.proxy.libraries.rutgers.edu/10.1145/3136273.3136285
Firth, Rhiannon, and Andrew Robinson. “Robotopias: Mapping Utopian Perspectives on New
Industrial Technology.” International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy, ahead-of-print, no. ahead-of-print, 2020, doi:10.1108/ijssp-01-2020-0004.
R. Clarke, "Cyborg rights," 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Technology and Society,
Wollongong, NSW, 2010, pp. 9-22, doi: 10.1109/ISTAS.2010.5514655.
Graham, Elaine. “Post/Human Conditions.” Theology & Sexuality, vol. 10, no. 2, Mar. 2004,
pp. 10–32, doi:10.1177/135583580401000202.
Illich, I. (1973), Tools for Conviviality, Harper and Row, New York.
“Unemployment Rate Rises to Record High 14.7 Percent in April 2020.” U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 13 May 2020, www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2020/unemployment-rate-rises-to-record-high-14-point-7-percent-in-april-2020.htm?view_full.